The agile team working on the SNHU Travel application was comprised of hard-working members that ultimately lead to the team’s success. The Scrum Master would stick with the plan formed during the Sprint Planning phase. They would lead the Daily Scrum to keep team members on task and help address any concerns brought up during the meeting. If coaching was needed, they would do it in a professional way, that would be a learning moment and add value to the team member receiving the coaching. At the end they would perform a Sprint Review and a Retrospective. The Product Owner has a key role on the Scrum Team. Their position is at the center of communication between the team, users, and stakeholders. When engaging with users it is important to focus on what users want. Asking questions like what features need to be improved or what is missing. Understanding the needs of the users will ultimately improve the product overall. As the Product Owner, having user stories for stakeholders is part of the role. The Product Owner is the direct line of communication for stakeholders so communication should happen often. The Product Owner should explain to stakeholders the progress of the project, any issues, and what to expect in the near future. The Tester is an important part of agile and its ability to rapidly iterate the product. It is helpful to have specific details from user stories to help develop test cases. The more specific a user story is, helped provide key information and insight for a tester. Being able to see what user’s needs were, helped figure out what direction to take with testing. User problem areas and user needs were the most helpful information provided. The Developer played a key role in producing the application but needed the other roles to provide information to be successful. Being included in meetings would provide input directly to the Developer as opposed to later when it could be more difficult to make changes. Being able to communicate with the Product Owner and tester directly would provide insight into why the changes are being made and help with future projects and sprint planning.
User stories provide the team with information about users and their needs. This provides the team with the information to create user centered or user focused designs. This helps with the sprint planning phase, allowing the team to properly forecast time frames and deadlines. User stories are what help the team to create the products needed and the products that will be used. Having users create profiles. A User story about the need for User specific profiles was used. In profile creation users would input information and answer questions to help determine what their needs may be. Personalized experiences could be created for users with completed profiles. With user profiles we would be able to provide users with the most exact results possible.
The Scrum-agile approach helped the team by providing methods to complete the project and avoid delays. In the SNHU Travel assignment Scrum meetings helped with communication. The team would get together to plan for the project. Each member was assigned their role and knew what was expected of them. When changes were made the team came together to discuss the changes. They also discussed whether they would need to change the deadline or keep it. Being able to have these conversations leads to the success of the team. Without the meetings the team would not have been able to plan and react the way they were able.
The team utilized different methods of communication. Daily Scrum meetings helped the team to stay up to date on the project, other meetings were used when needed, and emails were used as another form of communication. The emails sent helped the team members work through issues without having to come together in a meeting. This helped to save time on the project while still achieving the necessary goal of applying the specific changes to the application.
TO: Product Owner
Subject: User Story
Hello,
I was hoping to get in touch with you to go over a few of the changes that you suggested. The activity filter for the vacation search, what kind of activities would you like to be available in the filter. Would you prefer it to be a drop-down menu with activities to select or would you prefer it to be a keyword search along with the vacation search? Could we schedule a meeting to go over how you would like to move forward with these changes.
Thank you,
Devin Criswell

TO: Product Owner
CC: Tester
Subject: Moving forward with new plan

Good morning,
I understand that during testing some things were identified as areas of improvement and passed to you. To move forward with the proposed changes, I need a final decision on how you would like the activity filter. What kind of activities would you like to be available in the filter. Would you prefer it to be a drop-down menu with activities to select or would you prefer it to be a keyword search along with the vacation search? If I could get the final decision in the next few days so we can stay within the timeframe.

Thanks,
Devin Criswell
The Scrum events help to achieve good communication within the team. The daily scrum can be used as a way to motivate the team for the day. This would be a time for team members to recap on progress or share what their agenda is for the day. This would give team members the opportunity to share any issues that have come up and to seek help. Sprints are also helpful ways of creating a need for communication. During Sprint planning there is a lot of communication between the team. Expectations need to be set along with deadlines and work to be assigned. Then during the sprint continued communication is required to ensure the progression of the project. Team members need to be able to communicate if problems arise or be able to assist other members if needed. Azure Boards are another effective way to coordinate and increase efficiency. Azure Boards allow for teams to plan, track, and discuss work. When planning, teams can be created using Azure Boards. Work assignments can be divided and displayed for teams to see. The plan can be laid out and displayed so timelines can be viewed, and progress tracked. Progression can be displayed on the Azure Board and easily updated to keep the team current and focused on the project.
	The Scrum method allows for teams to produce using a method that is manageable. Some benefits from Scrum are rapid iteration, increased communication, and ability to better meet clients needs with focused teams. Being able to quickly iterate and make changes means that customers’ needs can be met quicker. Scrum meetings and Sprint planning help teams to communicate more effectively and purposefully. With the use of the “Two Pizza Rule” we can create teams in a size that will allow for use to prioritize our clients needs. Small, specialized teams mean that clients can have the full attention of the team. Although having specialized teams means that it will be more difficult to receive help from other team members. Team members will be in their position until the completion of the project. Quick iterations can also lead to more bugs with the project and lead to an increase in testing and debugging. Scrum meetings and planning can take up time that may be needed in projects with strict deadlines.
	The Scrum-agile approach did help the team to successfully produce the SNHU Travel project. This approach was better than the waterfall method. When changes occurred the flexibility from Scrum allowed the team to make the need changes without moving the deadline. The ability to communicate between teams aided in their ability to rapidly iterate. If it wasn’t for the Scrum-agile approach the team would have missed the deadline and negatively impacted the client. 
